Your task is to play the roles of __both__ characters in [this scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V3-a58Wt2tk&t=41) from Inception. In it, Cobb gives Ariadne a challenge:

> You have two minutes to design a maze that takes one minute to solve.

Some liberties will be taken on that description. Most importantly, this challenge is not time-based, rather scores are based on the effectiveness of your mazes and maze-solvers.

_I apologize for the many edits to this challenge as we iterate towards an easy and fair format.._

###Part I: Maze format

All mazes are square. A cell in the maze is represented as a zero-indexed tuple `row column`.

Walls are represented by two binary strings: one for horizontal walls (which block movement between rows) and vertical walls (vice versa). On an `NxN` maze, there are `Nx(N-1)` possible walls of each type. Let's take a 3x3 example where the cells are labelled:

    A   B | C
       ---
    D | E   F
       ---
    G   H | I

all possible vertical walls are: `AB BC DE EF GH HI`. Translated into a string, the walls shown are `011001` for vertical walls and `010010` for horizontal walls. Also, by "binary string" I mean "the characters '0' and '1'".

The full maze format is a string which contains, in this order:

 - width
 - start cell tuple
 - end cell tuple
 - horizontal walls
 - vertical walls

For example, this maze:

       0 1 2 3 4
       _________
    0 | |  E|  _|
    1 |  _|_|_  |
    2 |_ _ _  | |
    3 |  _ _  | |
    4 |____S|___|
    start:(4,2)
    end:(0,2)
 
is formatted to this:

    5
    4 2
    0 2
    00001011101110001100
    10100110000100010010

###Part II: The Architect

The Architect program creates the maze. It must play by the rules and provide a valid maze (one where a solution exists, and the end is not on top of the start).

__input:__ Two positive integers:

    size [random seed]

Where `size` will be in `[15, 50]`. You are encouraged to make use of the random seed so that matches can be replayed, although it is not required.

__output:__ A valid size x size (square) maze using the format described in Part I. "valid" means that a solution exists, and the start cell is not equal to the end cell.

The score of an Architect on a given maze is

       # steps taken to solve
    ------------------------------
    max(dist(start,end),(# walls))

So architects are rewarded for complex mazes, but penalized for each wall built (this is a substitute for Ariadne's time restriction). The `dist()` function ensures that a maze with no walls does not get an infinite score. The outside borders of the maze do not contribute to the wall count.

###Part III: The Solver

The Solver attempts to solve mazes generated by others' architects. There is a sort of fog-of-war: only walls adjacent to visited cells are included (all others are replaced with '?')

__input:__ the same maze format, but with '?' where walls are unknown, an extra line for the current location, and a comma-separated list of valid choices from this location. (This is a big edit that is meant to make it simpler to write a maze-parsing function)

example (same as the above 5x5 maze after taking one step left)

    5
    4 2
    0 2
    ???????????????011??
    ????????????????001?
    4 1
    4 0,4 2

Which corresponds something like this, where `?` is fog:

       0 1 2 3 4
       _________
    0 |????E????|
    1 |?????????|
    2 |?????????|
    3 | ?_?_????|
    4 |__C_S|_?_|

__output:__ One of the tuples from the list of valid choices

Each Solver's score is the inverse of the Architect's score.

###Part IV: King of the Hill

Architects and Solvers are given separate scores, so there could potentially be two winners.

Each pair of architects and solvers will have many chances to outwit each other. Scores will be averaged over all tests and opponents. Contrary to code golf conventions, highest average score wins!

I intend for this to be ongoing, but I can't guarantee continued testing forever! Let's say for now that a winner will be declared in one week.

###Part V: Submitting

 - I maintain veto power over all submissions - cleverness is encouraged, but not if it breaks the competition or my computer! (If I can't tell what your code does, I will probably veto it)
 - Come up with a name for your Architect/Solver pair. Post your code along with instructions on how to run it.

Coming soon: an updated python test kit for the new format. Big changes happened to allow any language submissions.